I want to first start with your kind of
journey because you started in uh
looking at epilepsy as your major field
or major uh condition of of study. How
did you uh move from the epilepsy world
into understanding cancer and what what
was that journey like?
>> Well, I I I actually started doing lipid
biochemistry and genetics. Um but when I
was at Yale University department of
neurology
uh it was clear that if I wanted to stay
I better find something to do with
epilepsy because the whole department at
that time under Gilbert Glasser uh was a
leading department in in the world for
epilepsy research. So I I I decided to
try to map genes for audiogenic seizures
and we published some major papers uh
trying to trying to do that. And while I
was at Yale I I did think about
ketogenic diets for managing seizures
but I wrote an internal grant to the
department medical school and they said
nobody's interested in ketogenic diets
pos they were using drugs and I didn't
think much about it. Um but then you
know we developed some of the best
animal models of epilepsy and when I
left I was on the faculty at Yale as an
assistant professor. Uh but then I left
Yale and I came to Boston College and
started my genetic analysis of epilepsy
and we were mapping genes and
characterizing the phenotypes of these
different seizure models, epilepsy
models. And one of my students, Mariana
Tran, got invited to a meeting by uh on
on in Seattle, Washington by uh Jim
Abrams, the movie producer. He made the
movie Airplane and a few of these
others. Um his son Charlie was rescued
from near-death epileptic seizure death
by the ketogenic metabolic therapy out
of John's Hopkins. and uh Merryill
Streep did the movie First Do No Harm,
which was which was based predominantly
on Charlie's experience, Jim's son. Um
and Mariana came back and said, "Oh man,
everybody's excited about ketogenic
diets and epilepsy." And I told her, I
said, "Nobody cares about that." And and
she said, "Oh, no, no, there's a lot of
new stuff." So, we started to take uh
our mice and put them on ketogenic
diets. uh and we were able to show that
a lot of the success of ketogenic diet
was actually calorie restriction and it
was a lowering of blood sugar and
elevating of ketones. Um but at the same
time we had a big parallel study of
cancer brain cancer but purely for
biochemical reasons not not for any kind
of therapeutic uh attack on on this. I
mean we were just looking at differences
in in glyolipid biochemistry between
normal brain and brain tumors. And then
we started to get a little bit into the
angioenesis
uh studies. And angioenesis is abnormal
vascularization of the tumor. And we
were one thing led to another and we
were putting some of the tumor mice on
calorie restriction. And we were able to
show tremendous reduction in angioenesis
um and shrinkage of the tumor and and a
variety of other observations. And and
then I said, you know, what's going on
here? uh and it looks like the the the
way uh calorie restriction and ketogenic
diets work for epilepsy was a lowering
of blood sugar and an elevation of
ketone. And when we started on the
tumor, we saw the same thing. Lower
blood sugar, elevated ketone. And then
and then that licked me into what
Warberg had said, which was the famous
German scientist from the 1920s up to
the uh nuh 1960s.
He he he was saying cancer cells live on
sugar uh because they have mitochondrial
uh dysfunction.
So um we started looking at looking at
that and uh and if they have
mitochondrial dysfunction or they're
dependent on a fermentation metabolism
then it would explain why we were
getting the the uh really spectacular
results that we were seeing. Uh so we
started to do deep dives on uh signaling
inflammatory markers. We started to to
look at um the these cancer signaling
cascades and we were seeing them all
downregulated under calorie restriction
lowering glucose elevating ketones. So
then we said well what about because and
then we were doing it with water only
fast. So the the problem with water only
fasting a 40% calorie restriction in the
mouse is comparable to a a human doing
water only fasting.
Well, we were all excited about how
powerful this was, but we felt that we
would all be considered nuts and
crackpots if we were telling to cancer
patients to go out and starve or or stop
eating. Uh because the physicians think
that, oh, you got to put as much weight
on the cancer patient mainly because
we're giving them toxic poisons and
irdiating them. They're going to lose
weight, so they better eat as much
carbohydrate as they possibly could. And
I was saying, well, geez, that's just
the opposite of what we should be doing.
We should not be giving them
carbohydrates. So, uh, um, but then, you
know, to this day, to this day, many
oncologists think you have to pump the
cancer patient full of carbohydrates to
keep their weight on. And I'm saying,
why are they losing weight? Well, you're
being poisoned by toxic chemicals.
You're going to lose weight, right? Uh,
you shouldn't be doing that to the
person in the first place. So, uh, you
you should really be looking at the
nature of the problem. So, one thing
leads to another. And then we started to
look deeply at the mitochondria number,
structure, and function. And we found
them to be all abnormal in cancer cells
regardless of the type of tumor. That
means we knew that they could not use
oxidative phosphorilation effectively.
And then we supported Warberg showing
that they were fermenting. But our new
big thing that Warberg did not know
about is that he was all uh can't use
oxfos cancer cells upregulate glucose
driven fermentation.
Uh and that led to a big brewhaha
because it looked like some tumor cells
were taking in oxygen. they didn't they
looked like they had normal mitochondria
and this this problem exists today. Uh
we have clearly clearly shown that they
can also ferment an amino acid glutamine
in the mitochondria which is brand new.
Um I had speculated on that in my book
in 2012. I speculated on it and we put a
map together on how it might occur. But
now we've really fleshed it out with my
work with Christo Shinopoulos and Seml
Weiss University, world expert on
mitochondrial substrate level
phosphorilation. And we showed that it
was glutamine was the primary fuel. And
you know everybody in I shouldn't say
but almost everybody in the cancer field
knows glutamine is a prime fuel for
cancer. The problem is they don't they
think it's respired. It's not respired.
It's fermented. That's the new thing.
It's a amino acid fermentation. So we
started putting everything together. We
saw we saw where Otto Warberg was
incorrect. His concepts were absolutely
correct. But the way he tried to
demonstrate with quantification of
oxygen consumption and lactic acid
production linked to how much ATP could
happen from both of these processes was
incorrect. And bottom line that led to
the big uh arguments about the Warberg
hypothesis and he was wrong and blah
blah blah. and everybody was running off
chasing jeans. Uh, and very few people
he was more or less abandoned his kind.
And of course toward the end of his
life, he became unhappy about the fact
that he was the big guru for the 20s and
30s and 40s. Um, and then all of a
sudden he's thrown under the bus. Nobody
cares about him and they ran off chasing
genes. Uh, which they're still chasing
uh, in the field. The National Cancer
Institute says cancer is a genetic
disease. Nothing nothing could be
further from the truth that that
statement. It is definitely not a
genetic disease. As a matter of fact,
most of the genes for cancer are
irrelevant.
>> If you want to learn how to implement
the ketogenic diet and the press pulse
protocol into your cancer management,
just visit school.com/keto
forcancer, the new community by our
research analyst Johnny Rockermeer.
Within this new community platform, you
can connect with other patients and
learn from their experiences.
You can also just search through the
posts other members have already made.
You will have access to our classroom
section as well, which provides
practical advice and tools for the best
results. These sections cover all parts
of the press pulse protocol that you
should implement. Starting with the
general scientific concepts by Dr.
Thomas Ciphford. We will show you how to
start the ketogenic diet, including
which foods to choose and which to
avoid. Additionally, we prepared a list
of doctors specialized in metabolic
therapy, as well as details about
glutamine inhibition and hyperbaric
oxygen protocols.
So, take a look around at school.com/
keto for cancer.
>> They have they have no relevance. I
actually can I can I just jump in here
because one of the things that I I'm a
big fan of your work and I I actually
totally agree with what you're saying.
Um, but I haven't heard anybody make
this argument and I'm wondering what you
think of it, which is if you look at all
of the different mutations that the
National Cancer Institute and
researchers who are focused on the the
sematic mutation theory of cancer, if
you look at what those mutations are,
they are largely mutations of proteins
or genes that code for proteins that are
critical for mitochondrial function.
Remember that most of the mitochondrial
genome trans you know when when
mitochondria were originally you know
subsumed into bacteria and became uh the
the symbiot they are today most of their
genome actually transferred over time
into the nucleus
>> and the nuclear the nuclear
transcription of those proteins is
critical for mitochondrial function. So
if there's a dysfunction in the
mitochondria,
it is possible that the reason why
you're getting that mitochondrial
dysfunction is because of a genetic
mutation in the nucleus. But you think
look at things like BA one and all of
these semi-penetrant. They're not 100%
penetrant, I recognize, but these
semi-penetrant genes that seem to
increase your risk of cancer. If you dig
down into what those genes are supposed
to code for, they're coding for proteins
that have a key role in making certain
that mitochondrial that mitochondria can
function properly.
>> So if the mitochondria have the ability
to function properly because they're
being well taken care of otherwise they
might be able to withstand the this
mutation. But in the end I I agree with
you that it is not due to that mutation.
It's due to the effect that that
mutation has on the the mitochondria.
>> I I think that that can explain some of
what we see. Uh but we also looked at
the uh nuclear uh mitochondria transfer
experiments. So, so when you take when
you take the nucleus out of a tumor cell
that has all of these mutations that are
coding for whatever uh and put it into a
new cytoplasm,
uh uh you get regulated growth. You
don't get disregulated growth. And if
you do the opposite experiment like
Israel and Schaefer did, and this has
been done in in in in frogs and in mice
and these kinds of things, um yeah, you
take the nucleus of a normal cell and
drop it into a tumor cytoplasm, uh you
get disregulated growth. Uh so clearly
the the mitochondria calling the shots
uh on on this whole disorder and the
genes are largely downstream effects.
Uh, and when I say they're largely
irrelevant, the nuclear mitochondrial
transfer experiments pretty much uh slam
the door on that. Now, you're right.
There there there might be a gene and
and we looked at every one of the uh uh
germline genes, not not just BA. We have
P-53. We looked at the Lynch syndrome.
We look we went through and looked at
all 15 uh what we call cancer syndromes.
uh uh and every one of them every one of
them affects mitochondrial function in
some way. So and none of them are 100%
penetrance. Leaf many is the highest.
It's about 90% but there's still 10% of
people that have the mutation that never
develop cancer. So in order for
something to be a prime cause, there can
be no intervening disruption between
mutation and phenotype. And when and
that's why none of them are 100%
penetrant meaning none of them are
primary causes they are secondary
causes. Anyone that would have a tumor
as the result of a germline
predisposition has mitochondrial
dysfunction. Uh we have never found a
tumor anywhere uh that has normal number
structure and function of mitochondria
and is not fermenting. So that tells us
right there no uncertain no ambiguity at
all. This cannot be a genetic disease.
It's a mitochondrial metabolic disease.
But
>> it's just that the genetic mutation that
is the secondary causes, not the primary
cause is actually working through in
many cases disabling or otherwise
contributing to the dysfunction of the
mitochondria.
>> Yeah. Making mitochondria the primary
origin of the disease. Exactly.
>> All right. So that's let's clear that
up.
>> Y
>> So I don't want to hear any more I not
from you guys but the people are oh you
got this gene, you got that gene, you
got the rash gene, you got this gene.
You know now we're finding that all
these uh so-called we separated the
genes. We used to called oh cancer is a
genetic disease but then we found that a
lot of the genes don't have anything to
do with cancer but then we we wrote in a
terminology of driver genes. Okay the
driver genes are the ones that are
really the important ones. Well, today
more and more papers are coming out
showing our normal cells are full of
driver gene mutations. B15, there's no
cancer for associated with this, right?
And you know, one other thing that the
genetic guys don't like to talk about
are the cancers that have no mutations.
That's
you got to love that. And and when you
show them the data from papers that have
been published, uh uh they don't believe
it. And I must say, what what don't you
believe? They looked and they didn't
find any. Well, they didn't look hard
enough. And I said, "Well, they use the
same technology to show mutations in
hundreds of other similar cancers, but
not in a few of these. How do you
explain that using the same technology?
Some cancers have no mutations."
>> Well, let me ask you let me ask you this
because it's it's I I've been doing some
work in longevity and looking at at at
the hallmarks of aging. And of course,
cancer rates go up just the same way uh
just as mitochondrial dysfunction seems
to go up with age. But the connection
that I'm making and and help me, you
know, understand from your perspective
the vi the viability of it is that it's
not genetics, but there is an epigenetic
component to it. Because you see in a
lot of a lot of cancers, you see
proteins that shouldn't be in that
tissue type being expressed. And that
suggests to me not a mutation. It
suggests to me that the that the
epigenetic controls on whether or not
that protein is being expressed have
been lost. And the way you lose
epigenetic controls, one of the primary
drivers of loss of epigenetic control
are free radicals. And the free radicals
are coming from the mitochondria. Yeah.
>> So I actually think that mitochondria
aren't the downstream consequence of,
you know, the dysfunction of the
mitochondria isn't the downstream
consequence of a mutation.
It's the upstream con uh driver of the
epigenetic loss control loss that leads
to aberant protein expression. So when
you see that aberrant protein uh
expression in in tumor cells
it's not about the mutation. It's about
the epigenetic control loss and the
mitochondria.
>> You're you're absolutely right and what
I said in my in my big paper. Don't
forget the mitochondria is the most
powerful epigenetic system in the cell.
>> Absolutely.
>> So, so uh we're learning more and more
that our destiny longevity uh is all
linked to the fun structure and function
of the mitochondria. Um yeah, it's
calling the shots in our cells and and
we die uh when we run out of energy and
and we have systemic failure of energy
and that's that's coming from the
mitochondria.
>> That's right. And second law of
thermodynamics entropy disorder. When
the mitochondria can no longer produce
enough energy to maintain the membrane
pumps sodium potassium ATP and magnesium
ATP aces which maintain an electrical uh
charge across the membrane. We go into
equilibrium and we're dead. So where why
are we not dead? Because the
mitochondria maintains the pumps. The
pumps keep us alive. When the pumps
fail, we're gone. And who's maintained?
It's all mitochondrial function. And not
only that, they maintain the
differentiated state of the cell. And
what happens in cancer, don't forget,
there's a two-step process. It's a
chronic interference with mitochondrial
function, efficiency of oxidative
phosphorilation coupled to a protracted
increase in fermentation metabolism. And
the and the maintenance of the
fermentation metabolism is the
upregulation of ankco genes which are
facilitators of bringing in the ferment
fermentable fuels glucose and glutamine.
They need to open the floodgates because
efficient oxos is so highly efficient.
You can get so much energy with
efficient oxidative phosphorilation.
When that efficiency becomes
compromised, we fall back on a highly
inefficient system. And that inefficient
system has to have a lot of logistics, a
lot of supply of the fuel to make up for
the the inefficiency of the respiration,
making up for the how efficient it was.
So ankco genes to open up the floodgates
for glucose and glutamine transporters
coming in now because the mitochondria
can no longer produce enough energy to
maintain the pumps. And when they do
that, the mitochondria loses control
over the destiny of the cell. the cell
falls back on its default state which is
proliferation driven by a fermentation
metabolism. So this beast is simply uh
an energetic non oxidation using
fermentation metabolism and fatty acids
ketone bodies cannot replace they're non
fermentable fuels. So the strategy for
managing cancer is not that complicated.
You have to take away the two
fermentable fuels while transitioning
the whole body to nutritional ketosis.
Uh keeping the normal cells in the brain
and heart and muscles completely
functional and marginalizing the tumor
cells. And then you come in with
glutamine targeting drugs pulsing and
you just absolutely slaughter these
tumor cells in a non-toxic way and you
allow your immune systems to come in and
pick up the corpses because you can't be
too aggressive in targeting glutamine
because the very immune cells need the
same fuel the tumor cells need. So, so
that's why you have to know the biology
of the of the beast and the and the
normal and abnormal cells that are
participatory in the progression of this
problem. And you want to make certain
that those immune cells when they're
coming in to clear out the debris,
they're doing it in in a
non-inflammatory way.
>> Yeah. Because they come in in an
inflammatory way, then they're going to
be shifting over to that same
fermentable fuelbased
>> as opposed to relying on oxos and fatty
acids, etc. So listen, I think I think
it's worth going back for our audience
and just because you just gave us
basically the the the heart and soul of
the press pulse method.
>> Yeah. And not only that, not only that,
I gave it I gave you the the the future
of how you're going to manage cancer.
>> Well, that's and I agree, but I I think
it's worth going through and and and and
maybe discreetly providing this in a in
a slightly more digestible way for our
audience just because um you know this
so well. I'm pretty well verssed in it
having you know read and listened to
your all the teachings that you've had
on this but I think it'd be really great
for the people who are new to this to
understand what you're saying which is
that cancer is likely not re it really
isn't all the evidence seems to show
that it is not the result of a mutation
in the genome it is a result of a
dysfunction of the mitochondria
and that when the cancer cells become
cancerous their mitochondria lose their
ability to function and they have to
rely for energy on a more primitive way
of generating energy which is less
efficient and so it requires a lot of
dedication to that cell to bring in the
f the fermentable fuels glucose and your
discovery that glutamine can be used as
a fermentable fuel and glut glutaminalis
>> yeah to generate energy for that cancer
cell and so what you want to do is you
want to starve the cancer cell because
it has a limited number of things it can
use for energy while allowing the body
to have free reign because the rest of
the healthy cells can use fatty acids
and ketone bodies as fuel. So your press
pulse method and I'm I'm going to turn
it over to you because you're the
expert. talk about what you're pressing,
what you're pulsing, and then let's get
into some of the other things that that
are are being proposed, things like
hyperbaric oxygen and other things that
can accelerate the rate at which you
clear the cancer cells.
>> Yeah. Uh well, the the the thing we have
to also recognize when we when we say we
have to look look at the two types of
energy that we know about in cells. One
is as you mentioned oxidative
phosphorilation
which is based on Peter Mitchell's
chemoic hypothesis with a with a a
proton gradient of hydrogen ions uh that
are are dissipated and they it's like an
impeller and they can synthesize large
amounts of ATP inside the mitochondria
um uh using the TCA cycle together with
the inner membrane of the mitochondria.
There's a very sophisticated structural
structural generation generation of
energy that's called oxidative
phosphorilation because oxygen is the
acceptor of the electrons and they and
the waste products are CO2 and water. Uh
so that's the and every time we exhale
we we have CO2 and water we bring oxygen
in and this is the the the combustion of
energy inside of our bodies. Um, and
essentially we're just breaking down
carbon hydrogen bonds from the foods
that we ate. Those carbon hydrogen bonds
u um um contain energy and that energy
comes originally from the sun uh through
photosynthesis. So so we're just simply
recapturing the energy of the sun by
burning the food and and the waste
products are CO2 and water, right? Um
but the other form of energy is the
energy that we had before mitochondria
developed uh billions of years ago which
is fermentation energy without oxygen
and that's called substrate level
phosphorilation and those are that's
where a phosphate group is moved from an
organic substrate onto ADP and that can
happen in the cytoplasm through the gly
glycolysis the Mden Meyerhoff porns
pathway with pyuvate as the end product
um which then would go into the
>> which would go fully oxidized in the
mitochondria under normal conditions.
But if the mitochondria are
dysfunctional, it's reduced to lactic
acid and that's dumped out. But the
energy is coming from substrate level
phosphorilation. But what we uh found in
cancer cells is that you can have
another substrate level phosphorilation
reaction inside the mitochondria
independent of oxidative
phosphorilation. So so for a lot of
folks they get mis they they get
misinformation because oh I have a
cancer cell he's taken in the cancer
cell is consuming oxygen and making ATP
and they say well see it looks like
Warberg's wrong. It's making it's
they're using you're right they use the
the energ they use the oxygen to make
Ross ROS
uh and and the the ATP is coming from
glutamine through the fermentation
mechanism. It's unbelievable. So uh now
we know what these cancer cells are
doing to stay alive. But you're right.
So we have two forms of energy uh the
substrate level phosphorilation the
primitive form of energy and then we
have the mitochondrial oxidative
phosphorilation uh in the christe of the
mitochondria. So when and when we look
at under the electron microscope and I
did this in in in in the paper that I
published on the origin of ATP and
cancer uh first thing you have to do is
say okay if you're telling me
mitochondria are just are abnormal uh
what's the evidence for that so you go
back and you take every major cancer
that we know of breast colon all of the
different cancers lungs um and you look
under the electron microscope at all
these pathologists have looked at for
decades back in the 1950s 60s and 70s
when the electron microscope was first
being developed everybody wanted to look
at stuff they have the beautiful
pictures of mitochondria there were no
christ very few of them well how you
going to make energy with that very
organel you're looking at is busted and
all falling apart so you look at that
and you say well that can't structure
determines function if the and if the
mitochondria is a very complex structure
if you look at it under the electron
microscope um and when it's when it's
abnormal the structure is very
dysfunction very abnormal structure. So
you know automatically that that organel
is not going to be able to produce
energy as efficiently as a normal cell
that would be in that in in that tissue.
So already you see this uh and then
people still don't believe it. They
believe and this is one of the great
things in biology when we talk about
cell biology most cell biologists look
oh yeah that doesn't work it's
dysfunctional but when you show the same
picture to an oncologist or a cancer guy
oh no it's completely functional. uh
what's going on here? So, we have two
worlds. We have the world of oncology
that doesn't see changes that everyone
else sees and and they're all doing
things and and it's just unbelievable.
So, uh but but we we saw that and then
uh the other thing that I just published
this year 2024 uh for the first time.
The other second big thing we see is um
the accumulation of lipid droplets in
the cytoplasm of cancer cells. So every
major cancer that you see with diff
abnormalities in the number structure
and function of mitochondria, they're
all storing lipid droplets. Um and and
the field of oncology says the cancer
cells are storing the lipid drops
because they need so much energy they're
going to burn the lipids. And the answer
is no. They're storing the lipids so
they don't make reactive oxygen species
from them because they're going to die
if they do. So they store the the lipids
in the cytoplasm, which is a marker now
for inefficient oxidative
phosphorilation.
So those are clear markers to tell us
the mitochondria aren't working well
because they can't burn fatty acids. And
if you try to get them to burn fatty
acids, you're right, they explode with
reactive oxygen and that kills the cell.
So to protect the cell from death, they
store the lipids in these droplets, not
because they need them for energy, but
because they don't want to die. It's
just Is this the reason why is this the
reason why people are adding the um
hyperbaric oxygen
>> to the press pulse method is because
when you have the cells in a situation
where oxygen is actually going to be
very destructive to them.
You're increasing the the pressure of
oxygen from, you know, what is it about
three pounds per square inch at at
atmosphere because
>> Yeah. 2.5 2.5.
>> Okay. And you want to increase it up to,
you know,
>> No, no, we go up to up to about 2.5
>> atmospheres. Yeah. Okay. So, you're
you're up at at around seven and a half
to eight um pounds per square inch of
oxygen, partial pressure of oxygen. Um,
but what you're doing is you're really
driving more oxygen into the bloodstream
so that those cancer cells when they
take up the oxygen, they're more prone
to literally just popping.
>> Yeah. But but you got to realize what's
cancer protected against ROSS uh by
having a powerful glutathione
uh uh and superoxide dismutase
antioxidant system
>> and and melatonin.
>> Yeah. And and melatonin. But but uh we
we know that that's coming from the
pentos phosphate pathway. The
glutathione through the NADPH but but
the glutathione is made up is made up
from glutamine uh glut glutamate is one
of the key amino acids in the uh
glutathione. So so uh and the glucose uh
is driving the pentos pathway to make
glutathione and the glutamine is giving
us the glutamate. So so protecting us
against the rs. So when you take the
cancer patient and put them in a low
glucose ketone index where glucose is
low and uh ketones are elevated uh the
cancer cells now become so much more
vulnerable to oxidative stress inside
the hyperbaric oxygen chamber. So their
antioxidant shield h has been uh per
perforated and now they become even more
uh susceptible to oxidative stress
because their their protective shield is
now is now being pulled down. And let's
let's let's just break this down. So
what you're saying is that because the
cancer cells have a high dependence on
glucose and you can withdraw glucose
from the system by simply just getting
into ketosis, therapeutic ketosis
>> that you want to do constantly.
>> Yeah.
>> Then because glutamine is not an
essential amino acid, it's produced in
the body. There are pharmaceutical
agents, I think one of them is called
Dawn, that you can go on briefly.
>> During that period of time, you will
suppress glutamine synthesis.
>> Yeah.
>> And if you do it at the right time, the
glutamine levels drop. You can't make
glutathione.
>> Yeah.
>> Which is which is a consequence. You
can't not only can't you use the
glutamine for uh energy production,
right? But the cancer cells can't lose
their shield as you're saying because
they're not making the glutathione which
is what is it glutamine or gl glutamate
uh uh
>> cysteine and glyine.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> And glycine. So that that that trio of
amino acids that forms glutathione is
now dysfunctional. It's not working. And
now you become susceptible to the
oxygen.
>> Right.
>> Even more susceptible.
>> Right. Right.
>> Okay. So now I understand where the
hyperbaric oxygen comes in.
>> Yeah. So, but that's why we in the press
pulse therapy, we recommend patients
being in um in a low glucose ketone
index uh which is going to deprive the
pentos pathway of carbons to make
glutathione. So, uh and there and then
you're going to start the shield is
going to start coming down and what Don
does, Don blocks glutaminase, which is
the metabolism of glutamine to
glutamate. So, you block that step. So,
you're shutting down the availability of
the glutamate. you're not the
glutamate's not going to be there either
and your energy is not going to be
there. So these tumor cells man they are
just absolutely sitting ducks uh for for
this process and and the rest of the
body is burning a ketone body which is
considered a superfuel which actually
reduces oxidative stress in normal cells
making them energy more efficient. So
your body is now becoming a super uh uh
your normal cells are becoming super
healthy while the tumor cells are
becoming super weak and your body now is
taken up with a little glucose and and
and the the the organs that take the
glucose are not is the brain and the
muscle. So you put a little exercise in.
Muscle does not share glucose. It's an
evolutionarily conserved process. You
got to run away from the lion when he's
chasing you. So you're not going to be
sharing your sugar with any other organ
because it's it's a ev evolutionary
conservation system. And what little
circulating glucose might still be
present is the brain's going to suck it
up.
>> What happens to the tumor that needs the
glucose, you're taking away its
glutamine. You're taking away its
glucose. You're taking away its
protective shield. It's going to die.
And we know and we know it. We're
tearing the part. The angioenesis goes
away. The inflammation goes away. The
body starts getting healthy. The immune
system comes in, clears up the corpses,
makes a scar or whatever it has to do,
cleans up the the micro environment. The
acidification that used to pre prevent
the immune system from attacking the
tumor, the acidification was coming as
waste products from glucose and
glutamine, lactic acid and suinic acid.
They're not there anymore. The immune
system now cart blanch to come in and
get rid of the tumor cells. This is
unbelievable. Is there then a value
therapeutically to exogenous ketones
potentially in this uh
>> uh maybe maybe so we're not yet sure uh
but I think you know my my good friend
Dominic Di Austin Augustino uh puts a
lot of emphasis into that and I think we
need to uh when we start doing the the
the press pulse therapeutic strategy a
as a clinical trial uh on people we will
have groups that will have exogenous and
others that don't but we're going to be
measuring internally all the time. So
we'll we'll have a more direct answer to
that question uh as we move forward once
the once metabolic therapy be starts to
become incorporated in a serious way
into the main and I don't know how long
that's going to take. I mean these poor
guys are still chasing genes and things
so I'm not really sure what's going on.
>> So So you're focusing on if I understand
it closely you're focusing on um
glyobblasto as your first target and I
understand it's a terrible disease. It's
very difficult to treat and frankly the
modern traditional way of treating uh
glyobblasto is practically accelerating
the disease state. So it's just it's
it's not it's in it's ripe for for going
after it. But my question is ketone
bodies are generally created in the
liver.
>> How will this process work or how would
this therapy work in
in in liver cancer you know?
>> Yeah. So that that's what we when we
when we did our analysis across all
different kinds of cancers. Uh every one
of them is a fermenttor. Uh all of them
every every cell in the tumor is getting
energy through fermentation. So they
can't burn ketones. The ketone is a
non-fermentable fuel. So we can
marginalize almost every cancer because
they're all basically have the same
common metabolic problem. They're
dependent.
>> But if you're relying but if you're
relying on the liver to make the
ketones.
>> Okay. Yes. No. They they would burn
fatty acids. Liver liver burns fatty
acids. And they store the liver
hepatitis loaded with lipid drops. So
they they're not
they're they're suffering that you're
right. They make ketones. They can't
burn ketones, but they burn fatty acids
and they can't use that.
>> And how do you how do you how do you
stop the gluconneogenesis from the
liver? I mean the liver is a source of a
lot of sugar because they can actually
make it. They can reverse the process uh
you know of of glycogen synthesis. Do
you have to do you have to exercise? Do
you have to burn off that that
>> they can never they can never replace
the amount of of of sugar you would get
from your diet. They they they can just
up because you need some glucose to run
the the ariththraittes in the
bloodstream because they don't have any
mitochondria nucleus. They work purely
on on on glycolysis. So, and there's
billions and billions of these
ariththraittes. So, and they're they're
going to be the the the gas exchange
carriers. So, you have to keep those
cells uh and they they can burn the
smallest amount of glucose ferment
fermentation wise. So, uh yeah. So,
gluconneioenesis is making glucose
predominantly for the muscle in the
brain and a little bit for the
ariththraites. So, tumor is not tumor is
the last one on the line to get a little
suck of that, you know. So, so that's
why exercise becomes really important.
Because if I'm exercising, I'm taking
glucose out of the bloodstream. The
brain is taking it. The aristocracy,
who's where's this going to come for the
the angry tumor.
>> He ain't going to get it. He ain't
getting it.
>> So, this really points to just how
important muscle quality and good
quality sceal muscle
>> to burn the glucose is on an ongoing
basis.
>> Yes, absolutely. oxidative respiration,
muscle burning, uh you put yourself into
a low ketoic state and then you come in
with the drugs that go after the
glutamine and you pulse them and Don is
the most powerful we have ever seen. I
mean there are others out there but
nothing like Don Don is a dirty drug. It
hits multiple because there's families
of glutaminases
and the the industry likes to patent
stuff to make billions of dollars. Uh,
and I've tried some of these things, but
but if you block one and the it's like
whack-a-ole, you know, you block that
one, but the other one gets upregulated.
Don is beautiful because it shuts them
all down simultaneously. Uh, uh, and
they took Don off the they don't use it.
They said it was too toxic and and it
was toxic, but not like uh Red Devil and
Sis Platin and some of these crazy
things they're using now. These are
poisons, man. They're they're brutal.
Uh, but but the other thing about Dawn
is they never used it in the correct
way. You're not supposed to use it as
the primary source of of treating
cancer. It's supposed to be an add-on
after you choke hold the glucose. So,
you got to know how to use the tools
that you have in the tool chest.
>> What's the stay on? What's the amount of
time that you have to stay on the dawn
>> in the the pulses? I mean, frequently do
you do it? Is like once a week? Is it
for a couple hours?
>> That that that that's cutting edge right
now. That's what we're working on. you
work.
>> It's called It's called nonsexy science.
It's called It's called dosage timing
and scheduling.
>> Y
all all it all it's good for is keeping
people alive healthier for a much longer
period of time. But it's called non-sexy
science. You can't get funding for that
stuff. You know, they want to know what
the signaling cascade is and which gene
is turned on and turned off. And listen,
that's great and wonderful, but we're
trying to keep people alive here. You
know, you think the guy with the with
the brain tumor or the liver cancer or
the lung cancer cares about what
signaling pathway we he wants to know
what's going to help. How long can I
live with a healthy quality of life?
That's what our interest is.
>> Pharmaceutical industry is making a
billion dollars off it. He cares about
whether he's going to be around.
>> I mean, yeah, that's that's their
personal problem. I I don't know. Our
job is to keep people alive healthy. Um,
you know, and and and and right now, but
I have to be honest with you. Yes,
doses, timing and scheduling is what we
are working on now. Uh and and and
ultimately when we when we achieve that
and that's going to be trial and error
in the clinic as well because every
person is a little bit different
metabolically from every other person.
So uh again you have to look at each
person as an entity, their age, their
sex, their body weight, all these
different things. What other
comorbidities might they have? And then
you have to design your therapeutic
strategy around that individual's uh uh
uh personal physiology. Now, one of the
things that we talk about a lot on this
show is about uh the autonomic nervous
system and how it influences a great
number of things that people don't
typically think of and one of them is
metabolism. Um and so I I want to get
first get a question which is what's the
role of calcium in mitochondria and in
the dysfunction? What do you see in
cancer cells that have dysfunctional
mitochondria with respect to calcium
levels within the mitochondria?
>> You know very few people ask me that. Um
it's an it's like an essential issue uh
because because the signaling cascades
inside the cell are regulated by the
inner membrane of the mitochondria. The
proton motive gradient. Mitochondria can
absorb calcium and they can uh they they
regulate calcium signaling inside the
cell
>> and the cell cyclones. The cyclones that
control mitoic division and how fast and
slow the cell are all linked to the
calcium gradient inside the
mitochondria. So when that gradient
dissipates from a variety of insults to
the uh structure and function of the
mitochondria, calcium signaling is is
dysfunctional. This unregulated. So the
cell now begins to not know uh my major
controller is losing its grip on my on
my existence. So the only thing the cell
can do is fall back on default state
which is proliferation. Um, and don't
forget when we have liver regeneration.
This is very interesting because when
you regenerate liver, they grow faster
than a tumor cell, but they're not
disregulated. It's a highly specific
regulated growth. And the mitochondria
burning fatty acids and ketones or they
glucose is there, but it's not the prime
fuel for liver regeneration. Fatty acids
are the prime fuel for liver
regeneration. Meaning that the
mitochondria are still in control. They
are in control of the division of the
liver and in gut replenishment in the
crypts of the gut that's driven by
butyrate which is a fourcarbon fatty
acid. So they neither of these regulated
growth signaling systems are burning
glucose as a prime fuel just opposite of
the tumor. The tumor can't use fatty
acids or ketones falls back only on on
the fermentation metabolism which is
either glucose or glutamine together as
a as a synergistic uh combo. So the s
calcium signaling is in fact regulated
by the mitochondria inner membrane uh
proton mode of gradient that links
calcium signaling to a lot of regulation
of systems within the cell. So again
that organel is important.
>> It also calcium also links it to the
autonomic nervous system. Um and this is
how
>> I I that I'd have to look more into u
but I can look more into that. Well, the
reason is that I bring it up is because
one of the most important receptors
that's involved in Vegas nerve
stimulation and in the parasympathetic
recovery state and all that is a
receptor. It's a it's a nicotinic
receptor. It's the alpha 7 nicotinic
acetyloline receptor. And we think of
that in the context of the inflammatory
reflex um immune reflex because it's on
the extracellular membrane
>> but it's also expressed on the surface
of mitochondria.
And it's an ionotropic calcium channel.
>> And so when you activate with
acetyloline, the neurotransmitter
obviously of the of the parasympathetic,
when you activate that receptor, it
helps to regulate calcium levels inside
the mitochondria. Now, there's a few
other pathways that are that are
involved in it, but interestingly, it's
very tightly regulated with melatonin.
So when you were talking about
glutathione before I, you know, I
mentioned melatonin. Melatonin is a
really important antioxidant, but it's
also not just for sleep. It's actually
also part of the regulation of
mitochondrial health through when
melatonin levels rise, then the
expression of this this alpha 7
nicotinic acetyloline receptor rises on
the mitochondria and it becomes
receptive to this acetyloline. There's
actually channels in the extracellular
membrane of the cell to bring
acetylcholine into the cell into
>> the into contact and into the vicinity
of the of the mitochondria. So there's
there's a play here where I think the
autonomic nervous system is involved and
and we talked before we got online, we
talked about the fact that some of your
work originally was in epilepsy and um
and the the possibility where of vag
nerve stimulation being involved in um
in the regulation of liver function and
in immune function and and I think in
mitochondrial function. So I think you
know one of the things that that I've
looked into in terms of cancer is when
people are in a highly sympathetically
active state they have worse outcomes in
cancer by by orders of magnitude.
>> Yeah. Wow.
>> So if you are in a parasympathetically
dominant sort of that rest digest
restore recovery state
>> you have a much better chance of
surviving cancer and getting through it.
And I think that there's a relationship
here between
>> between your your autonomic nervous
system function
>> and this mitochondrial theory of cancer.
I think I think they go hand in glove.
>> Yeah. I I think that's a very exciting
and very important u connection. Uh you
know we have not yet dug deep into that
what you just mentioned uh because we're
still uh proving the point that cancers
cannot survive without fermentation. But
once we start the clinical application
of press pulse,
uh these concepts of what you just
mentioned now become add-ons and
facilitators of a of a better, faster, a
positive outcome for the patients. But I
but we we haven't jumped there because
we're still dealing with the
foundational concept of what cancer is.
It's a mitochondrial metabolic disease.
Once people realize that, then then the
the path to a much more effective
outcome uh with the with the sympathetic
nervous system and how we can manipulate
that and even make the outcome better.
It's going to be it's going to be
beautiful. But we're we're not there yet
because we haven't even started the with
a with the exception of a few folks that
I've published. Um you know, we're we're
still in a very infant stage in very
early stage of this whole process. But I
look forward to these uh uh kinds of
connections that you speak of and how
how effective they're going to be when
we really know how to push this system
in the right direction.
>> Well, let let's let's talk a little bit
about how how well this is being
deployed already because I know that
you're talking about setting up the real
major clinical studies and doing some of
that boring science that has to come
before you can run the big clinical
studies. But and I know that the plural
of anecdote is not evidence, but
there's a there are a lot of people who
are following your work and are who are
even advocating for it. There's a the
Hypocrates Foundation, I think, or
Hypocrates Research Foundation based in
in Texas. Um, you know, I've I've I've
heard a lot about what they're doing. I
mean, how many patients at this point
are you aware of? And I know that you're
not, you know, you're not a clinician.
You're not asking people to go on this
therapy. you're just looking to see it
tested and studied. But, you know,
people do are you aware of that are
doing this already?
>> Oh, yeah. There's a lot of people doing
it. I have a I'm starting a little
registry because I I you know, I give
out my kit of information to folks and
and and I just ask if if the information
helps them, consider making a donation
to the Boston College Cancer Fund that I
that I get the money for or or Travis
Kristofferson's Foundation for Cancer
Metabolic Therapies. they support.
They're the prime supporters of our of
our work. But I only ask them to do that
if if if the information helps them. I
mean, I don't charge anybody any
information. For me, success is is is
their outcome. Okay. Um and if they want
to throw a few shekels in our direction,
we're we're always appreciative of that.
Um but I get, you know, so I give this
kits away. I don't know. This guy calls
me up. Oh, I got advanced metastatic
this or that. And I give him the kit.
And then about a year later, he emails
me. He said, "I'm just still alive. I'm
doing really well." And you know, I had
that big tumor. And the doctors are
always miffed. You know, they don't know
what happened, why I did what I did, and
how the outcome came out. And so, I keep
a registry of those folks. Uh, and I and
I get a big kick out of it, and I said,
"Geez, I thought this guy was a goner. I
didn't know how he could possibly
survive, you know, and he's feeling
great." So, um, Maggie and Brad Jones
are doing a big documentary, The Cancer
Revolution. Uh, and they're making a
documentary movie because, uh, Maggie
Jones had metastatic lung cancer to the
brain. Uh, and she went on her metabolic
therapy and she's out 10 years survivor
now. So, they're Brad is a professional
documentary movie maker from Hollywood
and they're making this big movie and
they're collecting a registry of all
these folks that are supposedly
terminal, right? Terminal this, terminal
that, lung, colon, brain. And they're
all, I'm just alive. Yeah, I'm doing
well. And, you know, all this kind of
stuff. Um, and you know, of course
that's great, but but I also have to
publish uh peer-reviewed case reports,
>> uh, so they know what they did to
survive.
>> And, uh, I think that's, uh, and I'm
telling you, that's tough, man. Uh, you
write, you try to write a human case
report, man, you got all kinds of loose
ends hanging around. What the guy, why
did you eat that at that time? Don't you
know what it did to your GKI and all
this? Um, but it, but my students and I
and and we work together. I I'm working
with physicians because I need to get
the data from them. I need the patients
to be compliant so they collect the data
for me and I can publish these papers
and let the cancer field see uh why this
terminal guy is still alive. What did he
do? Uh uh we were very saddened this
couple of weeks ago or last week
actually two weeks our big brain cancer
survivor Pablo Kelly passed away. a
10-year survivor uh who used for
glyopblastoma. He had no radiation, no
chemo, no no steroids, none of this
stuff. He did metabolic therapy by
itself. Uh they said he had an
inoperable brain tumor. Uh after three
years, they did the first debulking
surgery. Um he kept his GKI nice. We
published it uh 80 months. uh he and
he's had he had three surgeries o over a
period of 10 years uh on this tumor. He
was never cured. He got married and has
several children. Uh he he he um he he
was just using metabolic therapy to
manage the tumor uh with just ketogenic
metabolic therapy. But then he went in,
we were having a big conversation just
like we're having right now. Uh he was
having a good time. We were uh talking.
He looked healthy. He was great. And uh
the next day he said, "I'm going in for
they there's a small part of the tumor
they think they can get out." And they
went in there and he he came out of the
surgery his thumbs up, smiling on talk.
He had a ma a massive cerebral
hemorrhage and died the next day six
hour 12 hours after he completed the
surgery. This guy was healthy as as as
as all he could walk. He had I mean can
you imagine surviving glyopblastoma for
10 years and still being healthy and
then having an inoperable tumor operated
on four times and the last time he
didn't die from the cancer he died from
a cerebral hemorrhage as the result of a
problem with the surgical procedure. Um,
so that was a tra that because he was
our poster child for how long you could
live with a glyopblastoma using
metabolic therapy but he did not die
from the cancer and I don't if he didn't
have that last surgery I have no I don't
know how much more he would have he
would have because he was out 120 months
which is 10 years to the almost to the
day that he was diagnosed. So yeah so it
was kind of hard uh hurt because he had
podcasts. Um but we still have Maggie we
still have a lot of folks out there with
lung cancer and met that are still doing
very well. So, I I think we're going to
see a lot more of these folks uh
surviving. But who's going to write up
all the case reports? Uh I'll be I'll
have a stroke writing up the damn case
reports. So So let me ask you a question
about these about these folks. How
difficult is it to get yourself into
therapeutic ketosis? And I understand
that for the average healthy person
who's walking around and likes likes to
go to to BaskinRobins and get a an ice
cream cone, they're not going to want to
do this. But well, for a person who's
got cancer and it's inoperable or
terminal, chances are they're willing to
do some pretty extreme things. Is it
that extreme?
>> Is it? No, it's not that extreme. It's
kind of a frightening. People get, "Oh,
what am I?" Well, you have your choice.
>> You want radi? We're never going to stop
anybody who wants radiation and poison.
That's that's that that's not what we're
doing here. I'm not telling you don't do
that. Uh what we've learned though is we
can go on a zero carb diet and bring
down the GKI. So you can eat fish and
meat and if you're a vegan or whatever,
you try to get your GKI down but eat no
zero carbs. And after about uh 14 days
or maybe even 3 weeks at the most um you
would see your GKI dropping uh
significantly and then you could easily
jump to water only fasting for a few
days and that's when you come in with
the glutamine targeting drugs. So it's
not so but if you try to go it's not so
traumatic but if you try to go cold
turkey it's tough because the brain is
addicted to glucose and it's like trying
to withdraw from nicotine alcohol or
whatever you whatever uh opioids or
whatever it's a very difficult your body
reacts in in in a in a very strong way
uh to this. But if you go zero carbon,
even that can after about seven days of
not having a bagel uh or or or something
sweet, hey, where you know, you're
looking around for something sweet. Uh
but but but you know, you're and you but
you have the glucose ketone index that's
telling you you're on the right path.
You're on the right path. But I've had
people tell me, "Oh, you know, I've been
eating no carbs and I I just can't get
my GKI down." I said, "Well, stop
eating. Just drink the water." And
invariably it drops.
>> Yeah. I was going to ask about fasting
because I think
>> obviously the effect of fasting is to
eliminate the excess carbohydrates to
have a very positive effect
ketogenically.
>> So fasting is a tool that you're using
in the press pulse method. Yes.
>> Yes. Well, you can do it with zero carb
diet. The goal is you use the GKI to
determine the zone.
>> So, and that can happen if you're again
a vegan, a pescatarian, a Mediterranean,
whatever it is. I we don't care whatever
you want to eat. And if it says, "Well,
I can't get that." Well, stop eating
that. Try eating something else. You
know, it's not that difficult. Uh but
but you use the number that from your
body, your body's number is telling you
what you need to do. And then that could
be different from you or somebody else.
You got religious differences, you got
cultural differences, you got all these
differences that people have. And then
you But bottom line is you're you're
still a machine. You're still a bomb
kilometer burning stuff. and you can get
down into those zones.
>> How do you find how do you get a list of
foods that literally have zero carbs in
them? Because, you know, you you go to
the store and you think, "Oh, I'm going
to get some beef jerky." Okay. Just
beef, you know, it's dried beef. But you
look at it and they got a flavoring in
it and there's six grams of of of sugar
in it.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> How do you Well, you have to you have to
you have to be conscious of that. And
and what we did in the epilepsy world,
we we we had big lists of low glycemic
foods. Like we realized that grapefruits
could provide you with massive amount of
vitamin C and doesn't spike glucose. So
we we learned that there were foods
avocados and there's there are foods and
there's a a glycemic index associated
with each uh type of food and a patient
would would choose uh whatever they like
from the list of low glycemic foods and
they would monitor their glucose ketone
index. They're the ones they're the
they're monitoring their own. they know
what eventually and then once they know
their GKI sometimes they know they can
feel themselves coming out of the GKI
and they know when they're in the
without even have to measure it because
they've done it so many times. So you're
turning your body back into the
paleolithic lifestyle that we had. As I
told many many folks, uh we are still
paleolithic men uh living in a modern
technological society and the cancer,
diabetes, obesity, all of these are the
result of a rapid change in our
environment. So we we we are still uh
evolved over one and a half million
years in a hunter gather thousands of
years in a very glucose minimal
environment and then within the last you
know 50 or 75 100 years we're all of a
sudden exploding with all these
different diseases as the result of our
technology
giving us the kinds of foods we always
wanted because they were so tasty. Now
they're on every corner, Dunkin Donuts
and all this stuff. And we're they have
obesity. As I said, obesity is evolution
in action. Those guys that are obese
today are the descendants of the
survivors of famine.
>> Right. That's exactly right.
>> Right.
>> What role does the microbiome play in
this? You mentioned butyrate earlier as
a short- chain fatty acid that's going
to help support liver function.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Um, and we know that microbiome is
heavily involved when it comes to leaky
gut syndrome, activation of
lipopolyaccharide.
>> I, it's kind of ambiguous to me. I mean,
as long as you have, I always find that
in cancer uh, there that we talk about
the microbiome. Nothing could be more
destructive to the microbiome than
radiation and chemo. So, why are you
talking about wondering keep your
microbiome? You're poisoning radiating
somebody. The poor guy's got diarrhea.
He's got kinds of problems. Oh, in that
case we can discard the microbiome. See,
with metabolic therapy, you will use the
kinds of things that you need to man to
manage the cancer and keep your
microbiome in the right right spot. So,
it it works for everything, but it's
it's a it's a hard cell right now.
>> Um, it's a hard cell.
>> Absolutely respect your time. We want to
thank you so much for joining us today.
I just want to quickly recap.
Mitochondria is key, right? the
mitochondria mitochondriathy is the the
initial pathway to this. It's glucose
that's the initiating factor. Excessive
glucose in the bloodstream that's the
initiating factor. And then we we have
to be careful because it was called the
ankcogenic paradox by Albert Surgi. It
was like how many different things uh
provocative agents can cause cancer
through a common pathophysiological
mechanism.
>> And what I did is I defined the common
pathophysiological mechanism that was
always elusive to others. Vir hepatitis
V viral infections damage mitochondria
leading to compensatory fermentation,
intermittent hypoxia, uh uh carcinogens
in the environment, systemic
inflammation, uh all of these things uh
can impact people in combinatorial ways
affecting mitochondrial function in a
particular cell of a particular tissue.
So but the outcome of co of course is a
cell driven by a fermentation
metabolism. Uh so it its origin can be
different from one person to the next
but the outcome is always similar
>> and it's the fermentation of either
glucose.
>> There's a replacement of oxidative
phosphorilation with substrate level
phosphorilation using the fuels of
glucose and glutamine. And some tumors
are more glucose dependent than
glutamine and some are just the
opposite. But in in press pulse
metabolic therapy we take them both
away. We don't we don't we take we know
they can't survive. And we tested every
other metabolite. We looked at all the
amino acids. We so we went and that's
the way we do this. We we starve the
cells. We take everything away from
them. And then time how long it takes
them for to die because there's nothing
there but salt solution. When there's no
food, they die. And then we add food
back and and find out what perks them
up. And then you immediately know what's
keeping them alive. And then you can
take that away and kill them. It's just
it's really amazing. pretty pretty easy
observations when you when you and you
have the right mindset as you're living.
>> Oh yeah, we've blown this cancer thing
up to make it a hopelessly complicated
uh disorder. I it's not so hopelessly
complicated. It's actually relatively
simple uh that we as humans have made
into a a monstrosity. Uh but the ch the
the approach to management is not so
easy. It might be easier to sit there
and get infused with a poison or sit
there and get and get irradiated. you're
not doing anything. But when you are
battling your cancer with metabolic
therapy, you are in fact battling your
cancer.
>> The success falls on your shoulders. Uh
so people need to know that they get
empowered to know that their their
outcome is dependent on their level of
motivation to stay with the metabolic
therapy. So this is completely different
strategy for managing but it will work
and it will drop the death rate by 50%
in 10 10 to 15 years. You know, I I I I
found it very interesting when I first
really learned about your your your
theory. One of the things that struck me
was the fact that some odd years ago in
Philadelphia, there was a physician. I
think he was the maybe even been the the
leading physician in the hospital. He
stopped everybody doing any work,
brought them all into the surgical
suite. He wanted them all to witness a
case of lung cancer. And he told them
all it was very likely that they would
never see one in their careers. Lung
cancer. And think about the amount of
smoking that was done back then.
>> I know.
>> But there was no sugar.
>> And the amount of sugar Stephven Gundry
talks about, Dr. Gundry talks about the
fact that a single bottle a 16 bottle of
Coke has more sugar in it than the
average person in 1850 had in a year.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> 55 grams, by the way. 55 grams in 116
bottles.
>> Oh yeah. Oh no, we never had we never
but sugar is not a carcinogen.
>> Sugar creates systemic inflammation
>> and especially high fructose.
>> Yeah. And that contributes to to the
problem. And once the cancer starts,
then the sugar is a is a is a prime
fuel.
>> Yep. So
>> but any event yeah we're we're just
remember uh we uh our as our research
depends a lot on philanthropy and
donations we actually uh acknowledge in
our papers uh uh people who want to
recognize to be a part of the change. So
we put if you see some of my papers you
say who are all these guys
they're the ones who are contributing to
our research
>> the ones making it happen. Yeah.
>> Yeah. They're the ones making it happen.
And there's a lot of folks that just
want to jump and and feel that they're
going to do something really big for for
people. So, uh, that's that's what keeps
us
>> I can't imagine I can't imagine there's
too many other projects that are as as
effective and as promising as what
you're doing. So, I would encourage
anybody listening to this, not only to
as as Dr. Habib often says, if you get
to this point in the podcast and we'd
love you to share it with somebody that
you think needs to hear it, at least one
person. But not only that, but in this
case, help fund the research. Help fund
the research because this is really
going to change things. There's not a
lot of projects in the world that have
the chance of saving millions of lives,
and this is one of them. So, my thoughts
to you for doing that.
>> Yeah. Well, thank you very much. But,
you know, I I I I get a little upset
because there's some folks out there
that are writing books with my name on
it that I never wrote and uh others are
kind of siphoning off saying I'm
supporting these found and I don't. So
it's really it's only Boston College and
Travis Kristofferson's foundation.
Nothing else. So I want to make people
to oh this charity thing and all these
it's it's it's upsetting a lot of my
students uh because it's not we need we
need those funds to support our research
not not pad somebody's pocket.
>> Yeah.
>> Everybody be be very aware if you're
>> like anything you know all this kind of
stuff. Any event listen I'll let you
gentlemen go. Uh thank you very much for
the interview and um I hope your
audience uh learns uh something about uh
how to manage cancer uh without
toxicity. today.